Auto Score Usage

I suggest using the program with a few files for which you already have the manually
sorted output .xlsx. At all points you can import the sorting from the this xlsx and see
where points are on the plot. 

When you first run the Auto_Score program it will ask you to choose a file type. 
After which you may choose the file to open.
The program will take some time to load the file depending on file size. 
If you use the program to save a .mat file (File -> Save Workspace) these can be opened
very quickly, but the .mat files take up a lot of space (>100 MB). 

Once open, you should set the thresholds such that epochs that are clearly artifacts
(i.e. epochs is the top right quadrant) are black and all epochs you want included in
auto sorting are colored. The you can simply press the button that says 
'Auto Adjust Thresholds' at the bottom of the 'Sorting' box. This will run the data
through 2 neural networks to determine the best thresholds. 

When you press the button you will be asked whether you want to just set the thresholds
or do you want to apply the neural network's sorting to all epochs. By clicking 'Sort' it
will both set the best threshold and also keep the exact neural network sorting. 
This option usually gives more accurate results since the thresholds alone are unable to 
completely separate REM and Waking epochs. 

After this, you can use the second button in the 'Sorting' Box, the 'Find EEG 
Artifacts' button. This button will identify the epochs most likely to contain artifacts. 
After this button is used you should always look through the artifacts to check for false 
positives. 
This is best accomplished by going to the 'Navigation' box and setting the drop-down menu to 
'Artifacts' and using the associated arrow keys to navigate. 
You can also use the 'Expanded View' Button at any time to get a larger view of the EEG and 
EMG plots. 

After this you can save your results to either a txt-file, an excel file or a .mat file. The
 excel save only works on windows computers, and the .mat save produces a file that can only 
be opened by this program. Saving a .mat file using the File->Save Workspace, is mostly for 
use if you need to save your progress so you can come back to sorting later. You can also import 
sorting from xlsx or txt output files but the .mat file also retains the filtered data (if 
any filtering was applied), as well as your threshold positions.

You can also go to Tools -> Episode Analysis to view the episodes of REM, NREM, and Waking,
as well as various statistics such as average episode length, average delta power and 
average theta power for each episode. 


Another very useful button is the 'Show Spectra' button that is located next to the EEG 
Frequency Spectrum plot in the top right. 
This button will produce 2 plots to look at of the average Frequency Spectra of each group 
(Wake, REM, NREM, Artifacts) for both the EEG and EMG spectra. 

After sorting you can use Tools -> Find Spindles, in order to automatically find spindles
in the EEG data and see the spindle counts for various states. 